1.why do we need programming langauges?
Communication with computers,it allows to communicate instructions to computers that can undersatnd
2.what does it mean for a programmming language to be platform dependent?
when the code is written in the language can only be run in specific operating system or hardware platforms.
we may miss the certain libraries.
if the code is compiled into binary format specific then it wont run on diffcult platforms.
3.what is an exe.file?
it is called executable file format.it contains compiled code,it means they are converted from source code to machine code which is directly execute with computer process.
it is not safety.it can excute ony any command System.
4.what is a .class file?
is a file that contains java bytecode,it is intermediate code generated by javacompiler.when you compile the a java source file(.java).
the .class file is platform independent and can be executed on any system that as JVM.
5.how is a.class file more secur than a.exe file?
.class file depends on JVM with its security feature like bytecode verification,sandboxing and runtime permission checks,provides more secure for excutng the code.
.exe file which rum directly on the os with fewer safeguards.
6. how do you verify if java is installed correctly on your computer ?
on windows ,open cmd and type " java -version" if it is installed it will show the version.
for compiler,type "javac -version".
7.what is the role of JDK?
Java development kit (JDK) is a cruical component for developing java applications.it provides the necessary tools,librariesand resouces for writting,compiling,debugging and running java programs.
1.Devleopment Tools:compiler(javac),Debugger(jdb),Java Runtime(java)
2.JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT(JRE):JVM
3.Libraries And APIS:java standard libraries
$.DEVLOPMENT UTULITES:jar,javadoc,javap,jconsoleandjvisualvm.
8.What is the role of a JAVA VIRTUAl MACHINE(JVM)?
JVM plays a central role for the execution of java applications.it is the key role for the "write once ,run anywhwere.which allows java to run on any device or os that as Jvm impemntation.
EXECUTION OF JAVA BYTECODE:
Bytecode Interpreter,JUST in time (JIT) compilation
platform independence,memory managment,security,portability and compatbility,optimization,runtime enviornment,exception handling and multithreading.
8.What is the main purpose of JVM ?
main purpose of jvm is to execute the javabytecode in away that allows java programs to run on any device or os,making java platform independent.
9.what is the package statement in java and why it is used?
package is used in java to group related classes,interfaces and subpakages into namespace,which helps in organizing and structuringlarge programs.
the package statement is typically first line in java source file and defines the package to which file's calsses and interfaces it belongs.
used for mainly organizing the code,avoiding name conflicts.manage and reuse.
10.what are the import statements in java ,and why are they important?
 it is used for bring other class,interfaves and packages into current java file.making it possible to user their functionality without calling their names each time.simpilifes code,improves readability,reduce code duplication,improve scompilation time.
11.what is a class in java?
class is a blue print for creating objects which define their state through properties and behaviours.
what is a object in java?
an object is an instance of a class.it represents specific entity with its own state and behaviour,as defined by the class.it is real world entites.
12.what is the main method in java,and why it is important?
the main method is a special method that serves as the entry point for a java application.it is where the JVM starts the execution of a java program.
the main method in java is essential for running standalone java applications.it allows the JVM to start the program,initializes the application,and handling command line arguments.
public: the method is accessible from outside the class.the JVM needs to call this method from outside the class.so,it should be public.
static:the method is static,meaning it can be called without creating an instance of class.The JVM calls the main method directly from the class itself.
void:the method does not return any value.it performs operations but does not return result to the JVM.
main:the name of the method.the JVM looks for the Exact method signature to start execution.
String[] args: an array of string arguments.this array can be used to pass command-line arguments to the applications.
